hello everyone that welcomes the kitchen
I'm really excited today so I'm going to
show you how to make something a super
fun I'm going to show you how to make
homemade Bob they're really fun to make
and they're probably to do for presents
too
so we're going to do a few different
flavors I've got some lavender ones here
and some Rose and also some orange so
I'm going to show you how to make them
so I've got 100 grams of bicarbonate
soda 50 grams of citric acid 25 grams of
cornflour and 25 grams of epsom salts so
30 grams of coconut oil some lavender
essence some dried lavender and some
food coloring the other thing to mention
is you're gonna need something to set
them in and make them in so you can use
that things like packaging from Easter
eggs if you've got small ones or
Christmas decoration packaging I've got
some silicone molds here you can also
use ice cube trays or even the mini
yogurt pots they work as well okay so
let's get started now this is a bit of a
scientific experiment so you do have to
be careful in making these because
bicarbonate soda and citric acid when
they are dry they're in herbs so they
mix them together and nothing happens
but once you add water they will start
to explode and fit everywhere so you
have to be really careful on how you mix
this so there's my bicarbonate soda and
I'm just going to dump in everything so
the in goes that citric acid and
[Music]
cornflour and that helps to kind of bind
it all together really make sure I'm
getting everything off of that place so
that will hold it all together in a
clump
and then the Epsom salts now this is
really lovely for a muscle relaxation
you can just buy that in the supermarket
and the citric acid if you can pick that
up easily online or also at your
pharmacist so that's all my dry powder
in there some of the whisk
I'm just gonna whisk it through really
well it might be your little lump of
powder so I'm just making sure that's
completely combined before I start to
add any of the liquid I'm melting some
coconut oil because I love coconut oil
learnt in my bath it's lovely it's sort
of own oil that your skin really soaks
in your skin and hair but you can use
any all you like under that I'm going to
add my lavender oil so just put a few
drops into there it's really strong so
you don't need a huge amount just about
a quarter four teaspoons worth and a
little bit of food coloring so I'm just
gonna squeeze in few drops of purple and
this is a liquid food coloring so it's
not gonna really really mix with the oil
I'm going to kind of distribute a bit
and then once it gets into the powder it
will start to kind of color everything
up but you can see it's kind of not
mixing the oil and water doesn't like a
challenge so you get lots of tiny tiny
droplets just floating around in the oil
okay so now I'm gonna stop 6 min so you
do need to do it really slowly just
gradually don't rush it few drops in
there like that just a few just and then
take my whisk and just whisk it broke
and you'll see it'll be lovely to start
with I'm just gonna keep going until
they get bashed into the powders they
got a bit finer
continue to add this just very slowly
until I've got always the oil
incorporated
[Music]
final whistle this is looking pretty
good and you can see it's very clumpy
and it's starting to kind of be able to
be packed together you can see you can
push it together look at my hand in and
kind of mix it together put it into my
bowls so I'm just going to dump my hat
but before I do that I'm gonna add some
of my dry lavender so I'm just gonna put
a few lavender flowers in the bottom so
I think that looks really twisty once
upstair inside the bath bomb and then
when you put them in the bath they're
gonna float will runs off and you're
really pretty
I'm just gonna mix this together so I'm
only going to vary just just lightly
done from my hand and that's that's all
you need
I'm just gonna squish it so this is
really fun just kind of make sure that
you really mix that round you don't want
it to be too wet otherwise you're gonna
have the problem where the bicarbonate
of soda and citric acid is going to
activate you want to save that for by
the time you don't and that's happen now
you can see it's kind of like kind of
damp sand and it's not wet but just just
ever so slightly damp it just feels a
bit cold so now I'm just gonna put it
into my mouth just divide it equally
[Music]
and now all you need to do is just
squish it down just to kind of compact
everything together so it will set like
a solid lump so he's quite a bit of
pressure just to push it into the molds
so to create the other fragrances might
just be exactly the same thing but with
different flavours so I used some lovely
rose oil and some Mandarin oil and I've
got some dried rose petals here which I
used so they're really lovely you can
just pick these up in the supermarket
I'll show you how to get them out of the
molds so just simply just turn them over
like that just if the mold away that's
really pretty for the orange in there
and then for the Rose one just turn it
over gorgeous
I'm gonna activate running this also so
it's a really really fun so have a look
and watch what happens when this hits
the wall so let's use one of our loving
the bombs ready
look at that fizzing away can you hear
it
I hope you've enjoyed watching and I
hope you make your own and if you do
share your pictures and use the hashtag
stay home get cooking bye
[Music]
you